##HushTime.
###Background 
As many students embark on their college journeys it's most of their first times sharing and living with a roommate. Many students will argue that although school work in college is stressful, navigating living with a difficult roommate is even more stressful. Especially in a dorm as a freshman trying to make new friends. Many issues surrounding roommates include budgeting, scheduling, and studying. For example many college students feel as if they lose out on sleep because their roommates keep the light on. Another issue would include splitting up shared necessities around the room such as a mini fridge, rug, and microwave. The application HushTime is a solution which consolidates all roommate related needs into one unified application. HushTime creates a calendar with a “Lights Out” feature which indicates a bedtime requested by each roommate this way each roommate can get the amount of sleep they feel is necessary in order to be productive the next day. Alongside the ‘Lights Out” feature Hushtime also has features such as a calculator to divide up financial expenses so that the various costs such as groceries and room necessities are split evenly. In addition HushTime has a feature which serves as a communication tracker. It sends out small messages such as 
‘quiet time”, “stressed’,’open to chat’ and many more phrases that help maintain a peaceful environment  in a non-confrontational way. All the features which are embedded within the ‘HushTime’ application are designed to reduce any discomfort and awkward tensions that may arise with new roommates. With creating a healthy environment students are creating a less stressful environment in their new home 
###Purpose 
The overall purpose of the HushTime application is to create a positive environment in both college dorms and environments as studies have shown that having a stressful roommate situation has a direct correlation on a students health and well being. Madeleine Golding, an astounding undergraduate researcher working under Dr. Miryha Runnerstrom conducted a research study published in the Journal of Public Health in Social Context. The qualitative  research involved interviews with 30 undergrads at the University of California Irvine. It was concluded that a negative roommate experience was linked to increased anxiety, disturbed sleep, and overall higher stress levels. The participants stated that they displayed avoidance behaviours which only resulted in unresolved conflicts and higher tensions within the shared space. Essentially if students have an issue or a concern with their roommates they refuse to talk about it in person due to fear of confrontation but the lack of communication only escalated the issue and creates a difficult living situation. The students claim that they feared confrontation would only worsen any issues and that they have never experienced living with strangers therefore they The application can be used through Universities themselves as a tool they provide for incoming freshmen to make the roommate experience more comfortable. The purpose of our application is to avoid this negative tension and help students create a comfortable environment so that a college student's new home will serve as a safe haven as they navigate through the hardships of college. 
###Target Audience 
The primary target audience for this application would be college students across the United States whose ages range from 18-22, specifically those who are in dorms and sharing an apartment with random roommates. This demographic is often those who are experiencing living apart from their parents or family for the first time therefore they haven't honed the skills needed to live with roommates, specifically random roommates. These skills range from conflict resolution skills or even communication skills which are essential to cultivate a positive living experience. Although the primary audience for this application are college students the app can be used with RA’s as well . RA’s are Resident Advisors and are usually older students responsible for each floor of a college dorm. Their role is to maintain peace and ensure that college students are abiding by rules set by the University. The resident advisor can use the app to ensure that ‘curfew’ is set as well as send out alerts saying that it's “quiet hours” especially during stressful times lile finals. Overall HushTime can be used by resident advisors to reduce any issues that may arise within the floor of dorms. Even though this application can be used by a variety of different people the essential goal and purpose remains the same which is to create a positive living environment. 
###Workflow and Strategy
The HushTime application will utilize an agile development approach. I decided this would be the most appropriate approach given that user feedback is essential for this application. In order to ensure success and that the project will move in a timely manner I have divided up the work flow into the following phases . For the Requirement Analysis even though HushTimes comes with its three key features which is the shared calendar, the alerts, and the financial divider I am aiming to address any other common issues that may arise when sharing a common space. In order to do that I will be conducting surveys and interviews with college students who live in the dorm, apartments and residents advisors in order to gain a third person perspective on common issues that occur within the dorms. Tools that I will be using in order to maintain organization would include Notion for personal notes and Google Forms to gain mass amounts of information . I am aiming to receive any input on pain points so that I can create more features to address their needs better. In terms of Design and Prototyping I will be using FIGMA to create wireframes and interactive prototypes that will help users be able to see what HushTime is aiming to look like. I also will be implementing Adobe Illustrator to create a custom logo so that the HushTime can be a label recognized by college students everywhere. For front end development I will be employing Reactive Native. Reactive Native is an open source framework created by Meta which allows for developers to create mobile applications for both iOs and Android . Following for back end development I am choosing to use Express and Node.js  which allows for developers to create a web framework that is both secure and scalable. Using Express will also help me create API’s in a more efficient manner. Furthermore for Deployment, DigitalOcean which is a Django based server will host the backend and I will create CI/CD pipelines by using GitHub Actions. Finally I will ensure that the application will be tested with a variety of different people, specifically those who live in dorms, apartments, and RA’s and be taking into consideration any useful input to enhance the application. The table below roughly describes the timeline for HushTime 
| Weeks | Task    | 
| :-----: | :---: | :---: |
| Phase 1 Weeks 1-2   | Requirement Analysis    | 
|Phase 2 Weeks 3-5  | Design and Prototyping | 
| Phase 3 Weeks 6-9 | Front End Development | 
| Phase 4 Weeks 7-10 | Back End Development   |
| Phase 5 Weeks 10-11  | Deployment & CI/CD Setup   |
| Phase 6 Weeks 12-13  | User Testing & Iteration   | 
###Technical Debt & Challenges 
As any application that integrates both real time features with user inputs there is a chance that HushTime can have technical debt if not carefully managed. One of the biggest concerns within the application would be ensuring that all the features such as the calendar,alerts, and financial tracker are synchronized without any incompatibilities. With inconsistencies HushTime would be at risk for data conflicts as well as usability errors. In order to make sure that the app is completely synchronized each of the core features such as the calendar, financial tracker, and alerts can be an independent module. This way each of the features uses its own logic and they would be able to communicate with each other using centralized message broker  A challenge that also may arise would be designing a practical interface despite the many features embedded within the application. Due to the fact that the target audience is college students their knowledge on tech savviness can vary therefore it's essential that the application has a minimal learning curve. In order to minimize any negative impact of this challenge I think that it would be essential to implement usability testing as well as design feedback cycles through the use of Figma prototypes. This way I would be able to see which version of our designs would be the most liked and used by our college users. In addition, data sensitivity is a growing concern with technology expanding as fast as it is today, especially since our application is taking in input on user’s emotional well being and health data. In order to combat this is to put secure data protection protocols into place. For example data encryption and JWT based authentication are a few methods that can be used to protect users personal data. Lastly, another potential challenge that can arise would be cross platform compatibility. Although React Native enables development for iOs and Android UI rendering and OS version discrepancies are still likely to occur but by utilizing platform specific testing suites we would be able ensure that all the tools are compatible. Technical debt is inevitable but in order to minimize the effects we would do a yearly check-in to make sure that all the tools that we are using are all being consistently updated and still synchronized. 
###
Personal Reflection + Conclusion 
Although HushTime is a hypothetical project the process of being able to conceptualize and design the application has been a valuable experience. As a current college student who has experienced having to live with incompatible roommates, I understand the direct correlation that ‘bad’ roommates have on one's mental health which also impacts their school work. My experiences motivated me to think of a technical solution which creates a practical solution to minimize any roommate related issues. Being an Information Science + Data Science major with a minor in business  my skill set is very broad and this project allowed me to implement my technical knowledge, UI/UX interests, and my business acumen. Even though the application has not been developed yet, being able to map the user flow and create features allowed me to implement my interest in UI/UX. In addition while I was working on the development stack I learned about cross-platform compatibility through growing my knowledge on the tools available such as Django and React Native. Lastly by exploring the concept of technical debt and identifying any potential challenges I understood the importance of planning ahead and taking data security into consideration since the world is advancing technically every day. Overall I explored the full lifecycle of product development while also considering any long term implications. This exposure will help me approach any future projects with a strategic and user focused mindset. 
###References 
Original research. Negative Roommate Relationships and the Health and Wellbeing of Undergraduate College Students. (n.d.). https://www.jphsc.org/index.php/JPHSC/onlinefirst/download/35/13 
React native · learn once, write anywhere. React Native RSS. (n.d.). https://reactnative.dev/ 
Django. Django Project. (n.d.). https://www.djangoproject.com/ 
